In this topic, we are going to discuss the SafeMath library,
a free open source library provided by open Zeppelin.
This library is very important to ensure the security of your smart contracts.
Looking at the slide here,
you will see that we have an odometer.
As you may be aware, on an odometer,
when it reaches its maximum,
it cycles back to zeros.
That possibility exists in smart contracts also.
When you have the maximum possible number and you add one to it,
it cycles back and goes to zero.
This is called overflow.
When you subtract from zero,
the number one, you end up with the maximum number possible and this is called underflow.
We want to ensure that in your contract code,
you never have a situation where this occurs.
It is possible to cause immense financial loss if for
example you had a zero balance and you do some function,
there was a number subtracted from it,
and that resulted in all your contract funds being drained.
So what SafeMath does is allow you to use instead of the plus, minus,
multiplication and divide operators that are built-in into solidity,
it provides methods; add,
sub, mul, and div.
If you use these any time you need to use the corresponding math operator,
the SafeMath library ensures that things proceed
without the risk of underflow or overflow.
In general, I recommend that you always use SafeMath Library in all your contracts,
because there's never a situation where any of these addition, subtraction,
multiplication and division operations should potentially risk funds in the contract.
It's better to be safe than to be sorry.
Let's take our next quiz.
In what situations should you use SafeMath for contract arithmetic?